# Getting Started with Repeaters

So

First, make sure you have your radio programmed properly and can open the repeater. If you make a brief transmission when no one is using it of just your call sign you should hear the repeater courtesy tone and tail after you release the PTT button. Even if you can open the repeater, you still aren't sure anyone can actually hear you... So the next thing to do is ask for a radio check. A good time to do this is right after you've heard some people finish a QSO or a few minutes before the net starts. Just "KC1SJR looking for a radio check" should get you a response. Also, people tend to be listing during drive times and there's a few people who listen all day (myself included, but I'm usually distracted with work).

Keep in mind, NB1RI is linked to about 14 repeaters and it takes a second or two for your PTT to propagate, so if you don't leave a little extra time between when you key up and when you start speaking your first word or two can easily get cut off. Also, it's good etiquette to leave a few seconds of silence between transmissions in case someone else wants to throw their call sign out and join the conversation.

If you aren't able to get a response, you might need to look at your antenna situation. Portables work best outside and can have very spotty coverage. I always recommend putting up an antenna outside and getting a mobile rig and a power supply to use as a base. I also recommend having a mobile in the car. You can usually find one pretty cheap on riswap.net but if you can't, let me know as I always have a few around. Two chain links fence top rails strapped to a deck or fence post with ratchet straps work great to support a dual band fiberglass antenna about 20' high, like a Tram 1477 or Diamond X30. You're going to need to be well away from your electrical service entrance if it's not underground, because you want a near zero chance of your antenna and electrical service touching no matter the circumstances. You'll need a piece of coax long enough to get to your entry point, a lightning arrestor, and another piece of coax long enough to get into the house and to your radio. If you are unable to ground the antenna properly then you're going to want to keep the coax outside your house whenever you aren't using it, and not use it if there's even a sight chance of lightning. For proper grounding search for "NEC Article 810". There are other stealthy options if you rent or have a nosy HOA. But I digress.

After you know you can get into the repeater, listen to the net control and follow their instructions. At the appropriate time, key up and say "this is" and then unkey your mic and listen. If you hear anyone else, let them go first and try again when they're done. If you hear no one, key back up and say "This is Kilo Charlie One Sierra Juliet Romeo, Aaron in Albion." Net control should recognize you and maybe call you back for comments or information later in the net. If you're nervous or can't stick around, just add "in and out" to your check-in.

Hope to hear you on the next net. The Swap and Sell net on Saturday Morning at 9:00 is a good first net as they really just want to see who's listening and don't want comments or anything.

You can see a list of repeaters at NB1RI.net but you should have pretty good coverage from the Cumberland machine seeing as how Albion is about a mile away from it. 145.17 Rx, 144.57 Tx, CTCSS 67.0

Any questions feel free to text or call.